In the previous video, we already learn about
violation shutdown.
Remember that we have 3 option for violation,
which is shutdown, restrict, and protect.
If we use violation shutdown, the interface
will be shutdown, the light will become red.
But if we use restrict or protect, the interface
will not shutdown.
The interface will still up, but all of packet
will be blocked.
So even the interface is up, but the hacker
still can not send any packet.
Next, we will talk about the differences between
restrict and protect.
If we use restrict, the security violation
count will be increase every time the violation is reach,
but if we use protect, the security
violation count will never increase.
What is that means?
Let’s go to the switch,
here when we check in the port security, we can see security violation count.
If we use protect, the security violation
count will always 0, but if we use restrict,
the security violation count will increase
every time the violation is reach.
Okay that is the differences between restrict
and protect.
In this video, we are going to try protect
first.
In this case we will configure port security
on interface connected to server 3,
which is interface fa0/3.
Let’s open the switch, go to interface fa0/3
and then set the mode to access.
Remember that we need to change the mode to
access before configuring port security
Next, let’s activate the port security.
Now let’s configure the mac address, in
this case, I will configure using sticky,
so the switch will detect the mac address
of server automatically.
Next, let’s configure maximum to 1.
And then we will use violation protect.
Let’s check the configuration, do show port-security
interface fa0/3.
Here we can see that port security is enabled,
the status is secure up, violation mode protect,
and if we see here the sticky mac address
is still 0.
This is means that server3 is not registered
yet.
Let’s try to send packet from server 3.
Let’s check in the switch again, okay here
we can see that now sticky mac address is 1,
this is means that server 3 is registered.
Now let’s try to move cable from server 3
to the hacker pc. Let’s try ping from hacker
to server 2, here we can see that the result
is failed, but the light is still orange,
let’s click fast forward time.
Let’s try to ping from hacker again, okay
still failed.
Let’s test again, still failed, let’s
test to server 1, also failed.
Test again, still failed.
This is means that the hacker can not send
any packet to anywhere.
But here we can see that the light is still
green, this is means that the port is not shutdown.
This is because we use violation protect,
remember that if we use violation protect,
the interface is not shutdown, but all of
packet will be blocked.
Let’s check the port security, do show port-security
interface fa0/3.
Here we can see that the status is still secure
up, and security violation count is still 0.
Once again, remember that if we use violation
protect, the security violation count never increased.
But if we use restrict, the security violation
count will increase.
Okay now let’s bring the cable back to server 3.
Fast forward time, and then let’s try to
send packet from server 3 to server 2.
Here we can see that the result is success.
Let’s test again from server 3 to pc, okay
this is also success.
So here, when we bring the cable back to the
right server, the server will able to communicate again.
This is different with violation shutdown,
if we use violation shutdown, we will need
to use command shutdown and then no shutdown
to enable the interface.
But if we use violation protect, the server
will up, without doing any additional configuration.
Okay I think enough for this video, in the
next video we are going to learn about violation
restrict.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.